---
title: LAPD and DPS
layout: page
date: 2024-08-24
---

* USC, since 2002, has spent more than $550 million dollars on the Department of Public Safety. They have hired former racist law enforcement officers and Erroll Southers - the Associate Senior Vice President of Safety and Risk Assurance - has formerly worked with the ICT, an anti-Palestinian organization. There is also a history of Black and Brown students being racially profiled by DPS, with one student stating "They watch us closely, more closely than they watch any other students on campus." Another example is Judah Adkin's wrongful arrest by the LAPD, and USC's failure to support him in 2022.
https://dpscab.usc.edu/implementation-dashboard/
* There are no accessible records of misconduct among DPS officers. Public records request for the roster of DPS officers with the ability to arrest under the MOU with LAPD resulted in no records returned. The LAPD does not keep this record. https://lacity.nextrequest.com/requests/24-969 Here is one database of LAPD officers made by [citizens](https://airtable.com/appcRGnLWepvd82NO/shrbnA2fINyEVZZ4O)
* Police reports from DPS are only accessible to the USC community IF they are a party to the report, despite the fact that DPS polices the citizens around USC. DPS does not maintain records of who they stop and has also failed to maintain documentation when seizing property.

* Erroll Southers, Associate Senior Vice President of Safety and Risk Assurance, who oversees USC’s campus police and collaboration with LAPD.
    * [Meet the ‘homegrown violent extremism’ researcher behind the crackdown on pro-Palestinian students at USC](https://mondoweiss.net/2024/04/meet-the-homegrown-violent-extremism-researcher-behind-the-crackdown-on-pro-palestinian-students-at-usc/)
    * [USC Hires People Fired by the LAPD as Campus Police Officers](https://www.newsweek.com/university-southern-california-hires-people-fired-lapd-campus-police-officers-1569054)


# 2024-04-24
Statement on DPS, LAPD Violence
[here](https://tr.ee/aKCJg03JMt)

## LAPD police recording
 Tactical channel https://youtu.be/T5tV-D14aZU

> massive demonstration send all units
> 
> Publicized unlawful assembly and they are extremely rooted
> Cancel? The help call at USC. Code alpha at 36th and Vermont 
>
> send an additional 20 units to 36 and vermont (3:54:00)
>
> Unless there is active assault or property damage, let's not have too many moving parts until we get resources in place (4:01:00)
>
> Dot to respond with 4 units, we'd like to hold vermont and we'd like to hold Jefferson
>
> if they are self dispersing and that crowd is manageable, we'll let them be and I'll check with DPS about their plan for the private property
>
>  reviews what happened.  There was a group there, and when they went in to take down the tents, there was a person who got unruly.
>
> He's been dealt with to de-escalate the crowd. That's as much as it's been all morning as long as they stay peaceful  (4:09:00)
>
> We are trying to get ahold of DPS... think it will all self resolve here shortly
>
> no change. USC still has their little skirmish line set up, but the crowd is not unruly. The crowd is not unruly 
No one at dps is picking up
> appears that there is no longer an incident
>
> helicopter-
> just an update on the group. They are still walking around in circles so it looks like they are peaceful 
DPS still isn't answering their phone
>
> helicopter-
> still got their little skirmish line, crowd is looking loose and doing circles
>
> Ground- Asks for count of green vests
> DPS says individuals with green vests seem to be the major agitators.
>
> crowd estimate x2.   100-200
> "Definitely not 1000" some are walking around in circles and most of them are looky-loos. Definitely peaceful (4:49:51)
>
> (sounds exacerbated) just have a local fire captain come out here and they can assess what is needed or not
>
> 1 pm- spoke with DOC and asked for units to go to the location in case they have to arrest people. Just made the calls (5:03:00)
>
> Code 3 2252 We've been briefed
> Looks like your group is peaceful. Just sitting on the quad..(helicopter left)
>
Dispatch is still calling more cars to usc for the "unusual occurrence" helicopter asked to return to see what streets are closed

> helicopter:no change in the quad area with your group
> 
> helicopter no change 200-250, just hanging out in the quad
