---
title: Academic displine actions
layout: page
date: 2024-08-24
---

# Faculty's letter on July 12, 2024
 
Dear Provost Guzman and Senior Vice President Kim,
 
Thank you for meeting with us on June 25th, 2024 to discuss the ongoing OCE process for students who were arrested or sanctioned during their peaceful protests at the end of the semester.
 
We wanted to reiterate our four main areas of concern, shared by many faculty, and highlight specific actions that we recommend.
 
First, we are concerned with the current OCE process as it continues to unfold. Several of us have served as advisors for students in the ongoing meetings. These meetings vary greatly in tone with some sessions being quite aggressive. It appears the students are being treated as a monolith, charged with the same violations across the group. Many have holds on their transcripts, preventing their enrollment in graduate programs or applications to medical school. Beyond two DPS memos, little has been presented to the students as evidence of policy violations, and many have been accused of violations (like setting up tents) that do not apply to them. It seems no effort has been made to learn about the environment in Alumni Park beyond the DPS memos (themselves incomplete and sometimes inaccurate). The charge that students are “accomplices” to a laundry list of accusations is particularly vague and frustrating. Many of us were at the encampment and were in no way, for instance, “accomplices” to graffiti on or near campus nor did we disrupt university business; this is true for many students as well. We recommend that perspectives beyond those of DPS be included before outcomes are determined, particularly the testimony of faculty who were present in Alumni Park on April 24th and after.
 
Second, we have concerns about the constitution and processes of OCE more generally. The office describes its mission as educative, but we see little evidence of an alignment with larger academic goals and our unifying values. OCE feels siloed from other aspects of the university charged with achieving and protecting our academic mission. The current meetings are very narrowly focused on policies and rules and stripped of broader context. As historians, journalists, lawyers, and scholars, we know that the pursuit of justice sometimes comes into tension with rules and policies. This has been clear in the central social movements throughout U.S. history. As educators, we encourage our students to see themselves as active citizens of the world, as agents of change. We teach them the history of social movements and to understand the value of civil disobedience and of standing for their beliefs. We should be able to sit with complexity as we engage our students. We should not fixate on tents and banners when so many have been slaughtered in Gaza, including so many children. The Lancet estimates the death toll may now be up to 186,000, nearly 8% of the population of the Gaza Strip. This is why our students were in Alumni Park and is relevant to their OCE hearings. We continue to recommend leniency and a dismissal of charges. They stand on the right side of history, and we are proud of their activism.
 
Third, we ask for reforms to and greater transparency in the OCE process. Faculty should be involved in the process of determining outcomes for the cases this summer, and faculty should be meaningfully involved in reforms to the OCE process moving into the fall term. We would like a clear, faculty-led process for selecting faculty for review panels. This process seems quite unclear at the present. While we understand that rules and policies are important in a university community, we are also committed to the university as a space where protest is supported and where complex ideas can be engaged. We do not want our students to follow rules blindly when injustices occur.

Finally, we remain deeply concerned about the militarization of our campus. The deployment of LAPD against our students, the ongoing presence of private security firms, and the checkpoints along the campus perimeter are all alarming. We have worked very hard for years and especially since the summer of 2020 to diversify our student body and to address racial profiling on campus. Students whose communities experience ongoing police violence should not face a militarized campus. Our neighbors and the press should not be barred from campus. We are distressed by Associate Senior Vice President Erroll Southers statements in support of racial profiling and also by his close ties to the LAPD and Israel's military-industrial complex.  We also wonder why OPE relies so heavily on former law enforcement personnel with no academic experience. We call for Dr. Southers and Mark Manley to resign. At the very least, Dr. Southers should sever his involvement with the Los Angeles Police Commission. USC should pursue a clear and transparent policy about calling LAPD to campus. Those advising the President must include faculty and extend beyond advisors themselves closely tied to the LAPD.
 
Again, we appreciate the opportunity to meet with you and look forward to continuing this conversation.
 
Sincerely,
[names skipped]
