---
# layout: archives
icon: fa-regular fa-font-awesome
order: 1
---

# 1. End War Profiteering and Investment in Genocide.
* It is unclear how much of USC's $13.8 billion assets are invested in Israeli companies and industries. Per our demands, "USC must fully disclose and divest its finances and endowment from companies and institutions that profit from Israeli apartheid, genocide, and occupation in Palestine, including the US Military and weapons manufacturing. Accountability must be ensured through full transparency around financial investments."
* Of the 50+ members of the USC board of trustees, these are members with known ties to Israeli companies and weapons manufacturers:
    * Robert A. Bradway (Chairman/CEO of Amgen Inc. - which has invested deeply in Israeli e-health ventures - and Finance Committee Chair of The Boeing Company, the fifth largest weapons manufacturer in the country)
    * William J. McMorrow (CEO of Kennedy Wilson, which holdes shares with Blackrock)
    * Oscar Muñoz (Board Member of Aviation, whihc has military contracts with the United States)
    * nne Nora Johnson (Chair at Intuit, which is invested in BlackRock, VanGuard Group, T. Rowe Price Associates. Chair of the Audit Commitee at Pfizer, Inc. as an individual has taken donations from Lockheed Martin, Northrup Grumman, The Israel Institute)

# 2. Complete Academic Boycott of Israel.
* USC has study abroad programs at Hebrew University's Rothenberg International School and Reichman University. As the US Campaign for the Academic and Cultural Boycott of Israel states: "To enroll, or participate in any way, in a study abroad program at an Israeli institution means ignoring if not perpetuating the ongoing violation of the academic, and, indeed, human freedoms of Palestinians."
* Palestinian-American and Palestinian students, who are indigenous to the land, are regularly denied the right to return to their homeland. According to a US State Department Travel Advisory, Israel also routinely interrogates, monitors, detains, and deports Palestinian, Arab, and Muslim travelers.

* Israeli law forbids entry visas to anyone who openly supports the Boycott, Divestment, Sanctions (BDS) Movement in solidarity with Palestine. Furthermore, Israel has issued a blacklist of organizations whose members are denied entry at the borders it controls and regularly interrogates, detains, and deports travelers with ties to the Palestine solidarity movement.
* Israeli universities are complicit with both the illegal military occupation of Palestine and the systemic racial discrimination against Palestinians residing within the Israeli state. Due to Zionist occupation, Palestinian students are routinely denied their rightful access to education and restricted from studying abroad themselves.
* Since the 1940s, Israeli universities have been used by the Israeli state to perpetuate the illegal military occupation of Palestine and systemic discrimination against Palestinians within the Israeli state. Many campuses are built on illegally settled Palestinian land, discriminate against Palestinian students, repress Palestinian history, censor political activism, and provide research and technology supporting the occupation and its systems of control. Specifically, Hebrew University Mt. Scopus was built in East Jerusalem, which has been widely considered illegally occupied territory under international law.
* Scholasticide - the comprehensive destruction of systems - is occurring in Gaza. 1600 academics have condemned Israel, with Gaza's 12 major universities having been destroyed during the occupation. Additionally, in their open letter, they've stated: "To date, nearly 6,000 school-age children have been killed, and another 10,000 have been wounded. Some 964 teachers and school administrators have been killed and 960 injured. As of January 2024, 378 schools in Gaza, accounting for 76% of the school buildings in the Strip, had been damaged; 117 of these have sustained major damage or have been completely destroyed. All schools run by UNRWA have closed, and more than 625,000 students and 23,000 teachers have been affected by school closures."

3. Protect free speech on campus and provide full amnesty to all students, staff, and faculty disciplined, penalized, or fired for their pro-Palestine activism.
* The 2024 Valedictorian - Asna Tabassum - has been silenced for her support of Palestinians. But this isn't the first time free speech debates have flared at USC. In 2020, high ranking USC student government member Isabel Washington expressed racist and anti-Palestinian sentiments. Additionally, in the same year, two more members - USG President Truman Fritz and USG VP Rose Ritch - resigned over allegations of racism. In the wake of these events, Palestinian students have not felt safe. As former SJP President Ramy Hassan stated in 2020: “Ultimately, the University has alienated its Palestinian students. It has showed us on far too many occasions that our existence on campus is not one that is welcomed, let alone supported.”
* With the nationwide demonstrations in solidarity with Palestine, students at Pomona College, Columbia University, NYU, Yale, Harvard, UMich,

# 4. Stop the Displacement, from South Central to Palestine.
* Real estate is undoubtedly political. At USC, a student housing boom - fueled by private developers - is changing the face of historically Black and Brown neighborhoods around USC, displacing tenants and gentrifying communities. In Gaza, where domicide - defined as the widespread or systematic destruction of homes - reigns, real estate speculation in the wake of the war has already begun (Additionally: see comments by Jared Kushner, this 'joke' by one Israeli company, or real estate company 'My Home In Israel' which has begun selling parcels of land in the Occupied West Bank).
# 5. No Policing on Campus.
* USC, since 2002, has spent more than $550 million dollars on the Department of Public Safety. They have hired former racist law enforcement officers and Erroll Southers - the Associate Senior Vice President of Safety and Risk Assurance - has formerly worked with the ICT, an anti-Palestinian organization. There is also a history of Black and Brown students being racially profiled by DPS, with one student stating "They watch us closely, more closely than they watch any other students on campus." Another example is Judah Adkin's wrongful arrest by the LAPD, and USC's failure to support him in 2022.
* Erroll Southers, Associate Senior Vice President of Safety and Risk Assurance, who oversees USC’s campus police and collaboration with LAPD.
    * [Meet the ‘homegrown violent extremism’ researcher behind the crackdown on pro-Palestinian students at USC](https://mondoweiss.net/2024/04/meet-the-homegrown-violent-extremism-researcher-behind-the-crackdown-on-pro-palestinian-students-at-usc/)
    * [USC Hires People Fired by the LAPD as Campus Police Officers](https://www.newsweek.com/university-southern-california-hires-people-fired-lapd-campus-police-officers-1569054)
# 6. End the Silence on the Genocide in Palestine.
* Recently, a human rights expert testified before the United Nations, stating there are 'reasonable grounds' that a genocide is occuring in Gaza. This is nothing new. Since November, UN experts have pointed to the risk of genocide in Gaza. Now it's happening before our eyes. But top media organizations - such as the New York Times - have actively avoided using terms such as 'genocide,' 'ethnic cleansing,' and 'occupied territory' in their coverage.
